[DOCS] Add documentation for new Analysis tab in logs app (#49165)
elastic/kibana: docs/logs/analysis-tab.asciidoc

[role="xpack"]
[[xpack-logs-analysis-page]]
== Detecting and inspecting log anomalies

beta::[]

> The *Analysis* page in the Logs app allows you to automatically detect some kinds of log anomalies using machine learning.

Reviewer: I think it's worth stating right off the bat that this page isn't applicable if you don't have the appropriate ML features available. For example:
```suggestion
If the {ml} {anomaly-detect} features are enabled, you can use the 
the *Analysis* page in the Logs app to automatically detect some kinds of log anomalies.
```

> The analysis automatically highlights periods where the log rate is outside the expected limits and therefore may be anomalous.

Reviewer 2: Yep, this is periods of time. 

They are expected limits based on the model defined by the machine learning module, and the "learning" it has done on the datasets to date. Therefore these values will always differ based on the individual dataset. A rate of 10 might be anomalous in one dataset, but not anomalous in another. 

It may be better to use the word "bounds" here over "limit" as that's the ML terminology.

> This helps you to spot suspicious behavior without significant human intervention.

Reviewer 2: Ideally, this would stop users having to manually sample their log data, calculate the rates, and decide whether those rates are "normal".

> You can use this information as a basis for further investigations.

Reviewer 2: This could be various things:

- A spike in the log rate could denote a DDoS attack. This may lead to investigating things like IP addresses from incoming requests. 
- A significant drop in the log rate could suggest that some some piece of infrastructure has stopped responding, and thus we're serving less requests. 

These are just examples, mileage will vary between datasets and anomalies.

On the *Analysis* page, you can inspect the anomalies and the log partitions in which they occurred.
You can also view the anomalies directly in the Machine Learning app to get a greater understanding of the issues.

> The *Analysis* page in the Logs app is only available if you have a license that includes the machine learning features.

Author: I think this sentence adds value. The Analysis tab is a feature in the **Logs** app which is only available if the **Machine Learning** app is licensed. 

If the user can't see it, I think they need to know why.

> The *Analysis* page in the Logs app is only available if you have a license that includes the machine learning features.

Reviewer 3: Because the licensing information is maintained on the https://www.elastic.co/subscriptions page, it is better not to double document this type of content. If for any reason they decide to change what is included in each license and this information becomes stale, it would confuse our users, which is why we don't include licensing content in our docs.

> The *Analysis* page in the Logs app is only available if you have a license that includes the machine learning features.

Reviewer: Machine learning features exist in multiple licensing levels, but I suspect this combination of Logs + ML functionality is only available in a subset of those levels. I don't think it's appropriate to try to keep those details up-to-date in the documentation; the https://www.elastic.co/subscriptions site is the source of truth.  I've added a suggestion elsewhere in this PR that will hopefully enable you to omit it here.

[role="screenshot"]
image::logs/images/analysis-tab.png[Analysis tab in Logs app in Kibana]

[float]
=== Create a machine learning job for logs analysis
Logs anomaly detection is carried out within a {kibana-ref}/xpack-spaces.html[space].
Within a space, the first time you select *Analysis* from the Logs app, you are prompted to create a machine learning job to carry out the logs analysis.

First, you need to choose the time range for the analysis.
By default, the analysis uses logs from between four weeks ago and the current date, then continues to add new logs to the analysis as they are ingested. You cannot change the time range for the analysis after the machine learning job has been created.

Once you have selected the time range, click *Create ML job* to create the machine learning job.
Now you can start detecting anomalies in your logs.

[float]

> === View log entries

Reviewer 3: You'll need to add a link title here.

Author: As above.

Once the machine learning job has been created, the *Analysis* page shows the log entries chart, an overall anomalies chart, and a collapsible entry for the anomalies in each partition.

The time range over which the logs are analyzed is fixed at the time range you selected when you created the machine learning job.
But you can use the time filter at the top of the *Analysis* page to restrict the period for which the results are shown.

> [float]

Reviewer 3: You'll need to add a link title here.

Author: As above.

=== Log entries chart

[role="screenshot"]
image::logs/images/analysis-tab-log-entries.png[Analysis tab log entries]

The log entries chart shows an overall visualization of the log entry rate, partitioned and color-coded according to the value of the {ecs-ref}/ecs-event.html[ECS `event.dataset`] field.

You can hover over a time period to see the log rate for each of the partitions for that period.

You can click a partition name on the right hand side to show or hide the values for that partition, or hover over a partition name to highlight just the values for that partition in the chart.

> [float]

Reviewer 3: You'll need to add a link title here.

Author: As above.

The overall anomalies chart shows the areas where anomalies were detected in the overall log entry rate across all log partitions. The underlying rate values are shown in grey, and the anomalous regions are color-coded and superimposed on top.

Where a time period is flagged as anomalous, it means that the machine learning algorithms detected something unusual about the log rate in that time period. This may be because the log rate was significantly higher than usual, or significantly lower than usual, or some other anomalous behavior was detected.

The level of anomaly detected in a time period is color-coded from red through orange to yellow and blue, where red indicates a critical anomaly level, and blue is a warning level.

You can hover over an underlying log rate value to see the average log rate for that time period, or hover over an anomalous region to see the partitions that had anomalies in that time period, and their anomaly scores. Anomaly scores range from 0 (no anomalies) to 100 (critical).

You can also click *Analyze in ML* to open the Anomaly Explorer in Machine Learning and {kibana-ref}/xpack-ml.html[analyze the anomalies in more detail].

[float]

> === Partition anomaly charts

Reviewer 3: You'll need to add a link title here.

Author: As far as I'm aware, I only need a link title for a section if I plan to link to it. 

The danger in adding link titles unnecessarily is that if you make even a minor change to the content in a section, or remove it entirely, then you have to worry about any content that may have linked to that section (will the link still be appropriate with the changed content? do you need a redirect?). 

I think it's safer only to add a link title to a section if you actually need to link to it. The syntax doesn't require them. And in this particular case, the content is beta, so I'm expecting a lot more changes. I want to avoid unnecessarily worrying about what may have linked to it when I change it.

Reviewer 3: Now that we are using Asciidoctor instead of Asciidoc, we are required to add link titles to each section that have a title. We talked about this during a doc huddle meeting.

* the log entries chart
* an overall anomalies chart
* the anomalies in each partition.

The time range over which the logs are analyzed is fixed at the time range you selected when you created the machine learning job.
But you can use the time filter at the top of the *Analysis* page to restrict the time range for which the results are shown.

[float]
[[logs-analysis-page-change-time]]
=== Changing the time range

Use the time filter to select the time range for the results shown in the anomaly charts.

To quickly select some popular time range options, click the clock dropdown image:logs/images/time-filter-clock.png[]. In this popup you can choose from:

* *Quick select* to choose a recent time range, and use the back and forward arrows to move through the time ranges
* *Commonly used* to choose a time range from some commonly used options such as *Last 15 minutes*, *Today*, or *Week to date*
* *Refresh every* to specify an auto-refresh rate
* *Stop* to stop auto-refresh (enabled by default for logs anomaly charts)

NOTE: When you stop auto-refresh from within this dialog, the clock dropdown changes to a calendar image:logs/images/time-filter-calendar.png[].

> For complete control over the start and end times, click the start time or end time shown in the bar beside the calendar or clock dropdown. In this popup, you can choose from the *Absolute*, *Relative* or *Now* tabs, then specify the required options.

Reviewer 4: Do we really need to explain how to use the time filter here?

Reviewer 4: Removed in https://github.com/elastic/kibana/pull/50832. Open to feedback.

Reviewer 5: @bmorelli25 I agree.  I think the time filter is pretty intuitive and we don't need to explain it everywhere.
